Expo Router "Getting Started" guide (#35463)
expo/expo: docs/pages/router/basics/layout.mdx

---
title: Navigation layouts in Expo Router

> description: Learn how to construct different relationships between pages by using folders and layout files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to construct different relationships between pages by using directories and layout files.
```

sidebar_title: Layout
---

import { FileTree } from '~/ui/components/FileTree';

> Each folder within the **app** directory (including **app** itself) can define a layout in the form of a **\_layout.tsx** file inside the folder. This file defines how all the pages within that folder are arranged. This is where you would define a stack navigator, tab navigator, drawer navigator, or any other layout that you want to use for the pages in that folder. The layout file exports a default component that is rendered prior to whatever page you are navigating to within that folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each directory within the **app** directory (including **app** itself) can define a layout in the form of a **\_layout.tsx** file inside that directory. This file defines how all the pages within that directory are arranged. This is where you would define a stack navigator, tab navigator, drawer navigator, or any other layout that you want to use for the pages in that directory. The layout file exports a default component that is rendered prior to whatever page you are navigating to within that directory.
```

Let's look at a few common layout scenarios.

## Root layout

> Virtually every app will have a **\_layout.tsx** file directly inside the **app** directory. This is the root layout, and represents the entry point for your navigation. In addition to describing the top-level navigator for your app, this file is where you would put initialization code that may have previously gone inside an **App.js** file, such as loading fonts, interacting with the splash screen, or adding context providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtually every app will have a **\_layout.tsx** file directly inside the **app** directory. This is the root layout and represents the entry point for your navigation. In addition to describing the top-level navigator for your app, this file is where you would put initialization code that may have previously gone inside an **App.jsx** file, such as loading fonts, interacting with the splash screen, or adding context providers.
```

Here's an example root layout:

```tsx app/_layout.tsx
import { useFonts } from 'expo-font';
import { Stack } from 'expo-router';
import * as SplashScreen from 'expo-splash-screen';
import { useEffect } from 'react';

SplashScreen.preventAutoHideAsync();

export default function RootLayout() {
  const [loaded] = useFonts({
    SpaceMono: require('../assets/fonts/SpaceMono-Regular.ttf'),
  });

  useEffect(() => {
    if (loaded) {
      SplashScreen.hideAsync();
    }
  }, [loaded]);

  if (!loaded) {
    return null;
  }

  return <Stack />;
}
```

> This example keeps the splash screen showing initially, and then renders a stack navigator once the fonts are loaded, which will cause your app to proceed to the initial route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example shows the splash screen initially and then renders a stack navigator once the fonts are loaded, which will cause your app to proceed to the initial route.
```

## Stacks

> You can implement a stack navigator in your root layout, as shown above, or in any other layout file inside of a folder. Let's suppose you have a file structure with a stack inside of a folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can implement a stack navigator in your root layout, as shown above, or in any other layout file inside a directory. Let's suppose you have a file structure with a stack inside of a directory:
```

<FileTree
  files={[
    ['app/products/\_layout.tsx'],
    ['app/products/index.tsx'],
    ['app/products/[productId].tsx'],
    ['app/products/accessories/index.tsx'],
  ]}
/>

> If you want everything inside of the **products** folder to be arranged in a stack relationship, inside the **\_layout.tsx** file, return a `Stack` component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want everything inside of the **apps/products** directory to be arranged in a stack relationship, inside the **\_layout.tsx** file, return a `Stack` component:
```

> ```tsx _layout.tsx

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```tsx app/products/_layout.tsx
````

There files name in these code snippets are a bit inconsistent. Sometimes, we're referring to the file name and sometimes to the file path. Let's add the complete path. This might help the new developers to scan/not get confused as to which layout file is being referred to in a code example.

import { Stack } from 'expo-router';

export default function StackLayout() {
  return <Stack />;
}
```

When you navigate to `/products`, it will first go to the default route, which is **products/index.tsx**. If you navigate to `/products/123`, then that page will be pushed onto the stack. By default, the stack will render a back button in the header that will pop the current page off the stack, returning the user to the previous page. Even when a page isn't visible, if it is still pushed onto the stack, it is still being rendered.

> The `Stack` component implements React Navigation's native stack, and can use the same screen options. However, you do not have to define the pages specifically inside the navigator. The files inside the folder will be automatically treated as eligable routes in the stack. However, if you want to define screen options, you can add a `Stack.Screen` component inside the `Stack` component. The `name` prop should match the route name, but you do not need to supply a `component` prop; Expo Router will map this automatically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Stack` component implements [React Navigation's native stack](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/native-stack-navigator/) and can use the same screen options. However, you do not have to define the pages specifically inside the navigator. The files inside the directory will be automatically treated as eligible routes in the stack. However, if you want to define screen options, you can add a `Stack.Screen` component inside the `Stack` component. The `name` prop should match the route name, but you do not need to supply a `component` prop; Expo Router will map this automatically:
```

Linking to React Navigation docs, where we can when introducing new concepts, will be really helpful.

> ```tsx _layout.tsx

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```tsx app/products/_layout.tsx
````

import { Stack } from 'expo-router';

export default function StackLayout() {
  return (
    <Stack>
      <Stack.Screen name="[productId]" options={{ headerShown: false }} />
    </Stack>
  );
}
```

> While it is possible to nest navigators, be sure to only do so when it is truly needed. In our example, if you wanted to then push **products/accessories/index.tsx** onto the stack, it's not necessary to have an additional **\_layout.tsx** in the **accessories** folder with a `Stack` navigator. That would define another stack inside the first one. It is fine to add folders that only affect the URL but otherwise use the same navigator as the parent folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it is possible to nest navigators, be sure to only do so when it is truly needed. In the above example, if you want to push **products/accessories/index.tsx** onto the stack, it's not necessary to have an additional **\_layout.tsx** in the **accessories** directory with a `Stack` navigator. That would define another stack inside the first one. It is fine to add directories that only affect the URL, otherwise, use the same navigator as the parent directory.
```

## Tabs

> Much like a stack, you can implement a tab navigator in your layout file, and all the routes directly inside that folder will be treated as tabs. Consider this file structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Much like a stack, you can implement a tab navigator in your layout file, and all the routes directly inside that directory will be treated as tabs. Consider the following file structure:
```

<FileTree
  files={[
    ['app/(tabs)/\_layout.tsx'],
    ['app/(tabs)/index.tsx'],
    ['app/(tabs)/feed.tsx'],
    ['app/(tabs)/profile.tsx'],
  ]}
/>

In the **\_layout.tsx** file, return a `Tabs` component:

> ```tsx _layout.tsx

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```tsx app/(tabs)/_layout.tsx
````

import { Tabs } from 'expo-router';
import MaterialIcons from '@expo/vector-icons/MaterialIcons';

export default function TabLayout() {
  return (
    <Tabs>
      <Tabs.Screen
        name="index"
        options={{
          title: 'Home',
          tabBarIcon: ({ color }) => <MaterialIcons size={28} name="house.fill" color={color} />,
        }}
      />
      <!-- Add more tabs here -->
    </Tabs>
  );
}
```

> This will cause the **index.tsx**, **feed.tsx**, and **profile.tsx** files to appear together in the same bottom tabs navigator. This `Tabs` component uses React Navigation's native bottom tabs and supports the same options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will cause the **index.tsx**, **feed.tsx**, and **profile.tsx** files to appear together in the same bottom tabs navigator. This `Tabs` component uses [React Navigation's native bottom tabs](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/bottom-tab-navigator/) and supports the same options.
```

> In the case of Tabs, you wll likely want to define the tabs in the navigator, as this will influence the order that tabs appear, the title, and the icon inside the the tab. The index route will be the default selected tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of `Tabs`, you will likely want to define the tabs in the navigator, as this influences the order in which tabs appear, the title, and the icon inside the tab. The index route will be the default selected tab.
```

> In the case of Tabs, you wll likely want to define the tabs in the navigator, as this will influence the order that tabs appear, the title, and the icon inside the the tab. The index route will be the default selected tab.

Author: I think I cover this in the nested navigators section of the real life navigation, but let me know if you think we should go further with that

## Slot

> In some cases, you may want a layout without a navigator. This is helpful for adding a header or footer around the current route, or for displayig a modal over any route inside a folder. In this case, you can use the `Slot` component, which serves as a placeholder for the current child route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, you may want a layout without a navigator. This is helpful for adding a header or footer around the current route, or for displaying a modal over any route inside a directory. In this case, you can use the `Slot` component, which serves as a placeholder for the current child route.
```

> Consider this file structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following file structure:
```

<FileTree
  files={[
    ['app/social/\_layout.tsx'],
    ['app/social/index.tsx'],
    ['app/social/feed.tsx'],
    ['app/social/profile.tsx'],
  ]}
/>

> Suppose you want to wrap any route inside the **social** folder with a header and footer, but you want navigating between the pages to simply replace the current page, rather than pushing a new page onto a stack, like what would happen with a `Stack` navigator. In the **\_layout.tsx** file, return a `Slot` component surrounded by your header and footer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you may want to wrap any route inside the **social** directory with a header and footer, but you want navigating between the pages to simply replace the current page rather than pushing a new page onto a stack, like what would happen with a `Stack` navigator. In the **\_layout.tsx** file, return a `Slot` component surrounded by your header and footer:
```

What does "... like what would happen with a `Stack` navigator." means? It's a bit unclear in this context. Are you describing the behavior of the stack navigator.

```tsx app/social/_layout.tsx
import { Slot } from 'expo-router';

export default function Layout() {
  return (
    <>
      <Header />
      <Slot />
      <Footer />
    </>
  );
}
```

## Other layouts

These are just a few examples of common layouts to give you an idea of how it works. There's much more you can do with layout:

- Implement a [Drawer navigator](/router/advanced/drawer)
- Replace the default tabs with [fully customized tabs](/router/advanced/custom-tabs)

> - Use a [modal](/router/advanced/modals) to display a page with transparency, such that the parent navigator is still visible underneath.
> - [Adapt any navigator that is compatible with React Navigation](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#withlayoutcontextnav-processor), including top tabs, bottom sheets, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a [modal](/router/advanced/modals) to display a page with transparency, such that the parent navigator is still visible underneath
- [Adapt any navigator that is compatible with React Navigation](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#withlayoutcontextnav-processor), including top tabs, bottom sheets, and more
```

Let's remove the period at the end of the sentences to be consistent with other list items.

```tsx _layout.tsx
import { Stack } from 'expo-router';

export default function StackLayout() {
  return (
    <Stack>
      <Stack.Screen name="[productId]" options={{ headerShown: false }} />
    </Stack>
  );
}
```

While it is possible to nest navigators, be sure to only do so when it is truly needed. In our example, if you wanted to then push **products/accessories/index.tsx** onto the stack, it's not necessary to have an additional **\_layout.tsx** in the **accessories** folder with a `Stack` navigator. That would define another stack inside the first one. It is fine to add folders that only affect the URL but otherwise use the same navigator as the parent folder.

## Tabs

Much like a stack, you can implement a tab navigator in your layout file, and all the routes directly inside that folder will be treated as tabs. Consider this file structure:

<FileTree
  files={[
    ['app/(tabs)/\_layout.tsx'],
    ['app/(tabs)/index.tsx'],
    ['app/(tabs)/feed.tsx'],
    ['app/(tabs)/profile.tsx'],
  ]}
/>

In the **\_layout.tsx** file, return a `Tab` component:

```tsx _layout.tsx

> import { Tab } from 'expo-router';

Reviewer 2: Here as well, `Tabs`

import MaterialIcons from '@expo/vector-icons/MaterialIcons';

export default function TabLayout() {
  return (
    <Tabs>
      <Tabs.Screen
        name="index"
        options={{
          title: 'Home',

>           tabBarIcon: ({ color }) => <MaterialIconse size={28} name="house.fill" color={color} />,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
          tabBarIcon: ({ color }) => <MaterialIcons size={28} name="house.fill" color={color} />,
```

Not best practice to use material icons on iOS, would prefer SF symbols
